# LION
Learn Interpret Outline Nurture (L.I.O.N.) is an AI-assisted Bible lesson development platform

The purpose of this platform is to provide an AI-assisted Bible lesson plan development solution for teachers and curriculum developers who are interested in implementing large language models (LLMs) into their Bible lesson planning activities. Many curriculum developers are beginning to engage with commercial generative AI solutions and learning how challenging it can be to ensure accuracy, maintain tone, and control formatting. This project grew out of my personal desire to run a local AI model for the purpose of developing lesson materials. 

Until recently, I was using commercial generative pre-trained transformers (GPTs) to draft lesson outlines that I used for teaching Bible classes. While these GPTs can be extremely helpful, there is a lot of work that must be done to ensure adherence to the Biblical text, themes, and concepts. Most of the models I have worked with do a decent job of interpreting the themes and concepts, surprisingly. However, when Biblical text is generated by the models, there is a tendancy to hallucinate. This means that all output must be run through multiple iterations of checks to ensure your lesson plan is an accurate and truthful representation of the Word.

Commerical models require subscriptons. For single users, there are affordable pricing options, but some developers might prefer to have an option that allows them to pay up front and use the models as much as they want. There is certainly a trade-off to consider. L.I.O.N. offers curriculum developers a subscription-free option to utilize artificial intelligence (AI) with no recurring subscription costs.

What L.I.O.N. is:

Pre-packaged solution based on Docker images which installs the necessary software to host a specific large language model, perform conversation-driven lesson development with the LLM, and tools necessary to call functions that pull in Bible text as needed for your use case. Engineered prompts are provided free of charge, but users are able to create new or modify existing prompts as needed to fit their specific use case.

What L.I.O.N. is NOT:

A large language model (LLM) - As a matter of fact, L.I.O.N. does not provide models. It provides the UI to interface with a chosen model. The intention is to allow users to choose models, although the project has been built around, and tested on, a specific Llama 3.1 8B model.

An AI Bible. L.I.O.N. is not a Bible implemented in AI. It is a tool to utilize artificial intelligence through the use of large language models to structure and create lesson plans based on exegetical analysis.
